so coming up and down from the chair
this can be as challenging as you want
to make it so I do this with people of
all age ranges and capabilities so you
can start with a chair without arms or
with arms whatever you need I even work
with people that are pushing off the
arms of the chair coming up and then
grabbing their Walker so it's whatever
the student needs here it can be adapted
and we're going to start with the
version where we're holding on to the
chair to test this out feet are hip
distance apart you can be as forward as
you like in the chair we don't want to
be all the way back so come as forward
as you'd like and come up halfway and
all the way good so notice how my torso
comes back and I'm engaging the core
squeezing in neutral spine here so not
sticking out not tucking under and then
reach back I like to reach back even if
it's just to guide the hands you may not
be needing to use them whether it's on
the side of the chair at the bottom it's
just nice to know that the chair is
there and I feel safest when I do it
that way so we'll push off from the
chair again come up notice how my weight
is back toward my heels I can't even
lift my toes here and all the way up to
standing and back down good other
options you can reach the arms forward
and come up halfway all the way up I
still like to reach back just to know
it's there and come all the way down
once again you can come up halfway come
up three-quarters of the way and all the
way up come down halfway three-quarters
of the way and even more nine-tenths of
the way and all the way down good and
then the nether option is holding on to
the size somewhere in between those two
options so you can come up halfway
squeeze the core come up all the way
come down a quarter of the way down half
the way down three quarters of the way
reach back no the chairs there come down
nine-tenths of the way which is fairly
hovering and all the way to try to keep
the weight back toward your heels and
then I like to mix it up so whatever you
choose you can have your arms out here
here here we're going to mix it up so
come up halfway come up all the way
halfway all the way a quarter of the way
three-quarters of the way all the way
halfway three quarters of the way all
the way up good down halfway three
quarters of the way nine-tenths of the
way and all the way up and once again
come down in slow motion this time bring
the weight back toward the heels and sit
back ah take a deep breath in and a deep
breath out and you get to choose how far
away from the chair you are your feet
can be more forward or back find a place
where you can keep your weight back
toward your heels and not feel too much
pressure on the knees themselves now
this is a very important exercise in
order to help you with balance and for
fall prevention and fear falling because
we're working the large muscle groups
that are important for walking for
getting up and down from the chair or
from the floor which are so important
for longevity and for Independence and
empowerment so if you'd like more yoga
for balance and I even have some Tai Chi
for balance and fall prevention head on
over to wellness for balance calm so
thank you very much my name is Anne
Swanson again and thank you for joining
me for this balance routine namaste